# AI_Personal_Voice_Assistant_Using_Python

A project to build an AI voice assistant using Python . The Voice assistant interacts with the humans to perform basic tasks.


### About Jarvis :

Jarvis is an AI personal voice assistant service built using Pychram. It can understand human speech and perform basic task designed by the client.

When the user specify the appropriate trigger words , The G-One gets activated and executes the user commands.


Jarvis AI Voice assistant:"Loading your personal Assistant....
                          Hello, Good Morning" (Greets the user according to time)



### The implemented Voice assistant can perform the following tasks:


1. Opens a wepage : Youtube , G-Mail , Google Chrome , StackOverflow 
	
	
		User : Hey Jarvis, Open Youtube
		
		
2. Predicts time 
	
	
		User : Hey Jarvis , What is the time
		
		
3.Fetch Top headlines from Times of India
	
         
		User:Hey Jarvis , what's the latest news?
		
		
4. Captures a photo
	
  		
		User:Hey Jarvis, Take a photo
		
		
5. Searches data from web
	
   		
		User: Hey Jarvis, Search Butterfly images from web
		
		
6. Ask geographical and computational questions
	
  	 	
		User: Hey Jarvis, What is the capital of California? / Hey G-One what is Sin 90?
		
		
7. Predict Weather of different Cities
   		
	
		User: Hey Jarvis, What is the weather likely now in Kerala?
		
	
8. Abstarct necessary information from wikipedia
	
   		
		User: Hey Jarvis, Who is Bill Gates according to Wikipedia
		
		
   The voice assistant abstarcts first 3 lines of wikipedia and gives the information to the user.

		

### Libraries required to be installed using Pip Command:
	
	1.Json
	
	2.request
	
	3.Speech recognition
	
 	4.Pyttsx3
	
	5.Wikipedia
	
	6.Ecapture
	
	7.time
	


### In-Built libraries required to be imported:

	1.os
	
	2.datetime
	
	3.web browser
	
	4.subprocess



Jarvis uses Third party API's to predict weather in different cities and to ask computational and geographical questions. 
Free API keys can be generated by creating an account in the following applications.  
	
	Open Weather Map - To forecast weather
	

Happy Coding:)
